okay so how many of you have done this
kind of writing task before the process
or diagram writing task because anybody
here familiar with it looks something
like this okay all right good so it
looks something like this you're going
to be given a diagram that shows a
process of something and there are
stages or steps in the process that are
represented by pictures and arrows so
let's have a look at this one it says
the process below illustrates the
biodiesel cycle
summarize the information by selecting
and reporting the main features and make
comparisons where relevant now this
particular writing task 1 is quite
different to the other it's quite
different to the graph and the chart in
the table because you're not actually
talking about data you're describing the
stages in a process so the secret
formula is introduction a general
overview a detailed description and then
a summary so it has four parts and this
is how it will look you'll see that the
biggest part is the details description
which is the third paragraph the
introduction general overview and
summary are really short they're really
only about a sentence or two each okay
so let's look at the structure in a bit
more detail the introduction is pretty
easy all you have to do is rewrite the
question using your own words the
general overview is also quite easy
you're not giving any details here
you're just saying how many stages there
are in the process and what the process
is part three is the really the main
part of the task is the detail
description this is where you describe
each stage in the process and give all
the details
then the summary you just mentioned the
first and last stage so the pretty much
system overview okay so let's look at
the introduction first one sentence only
rewrite the question so same idea but
different words okay be careful not to
copy/paste they want to see that you are
able to paraphrase so you need to use
your own words here so let's look at an
example the question says the process
below illustrates the biodiesel cycle we
need to paraphrase that for our
introduction and a possible answer is
the given information depicts the stages
required to produce biodiesel so you can
see how that's a very clear paraphrase
saying the same thing in a different way
so instead of saying the process below I
have said the given information instead
of illustrates I replaced it with the
synonym depicts and instead of the
biodiesel cycle I've said the stages
required to produce biodiesel because a
cycle is a process or a series of stages
or steps all right so some useful
vocabulary for you to use in this task
instead of the process because always
they're going to present it as a process
in the question you can see the given
information or the provided image and
shows some good synonyms for shows are
represents illustrates or depicts moving
on to the second part the general
overview this again is really just one
sentence you're pretty much describing
how many stages there are in the process
but you're not using any details just
yet so how many stages can you see in
this diagram just count the main
pictures
okay
lots of different attitudes got nine six
ten eight actually the answer is seven
so we start off with the first step
which is oil crops of photosynthesis
step one
second step use the seeds oil is
extracted from the seeds to create crude
vegetable oil then it's refined into
refined vegetable oil alcohol is added
and then step six is actually in two
parts you can see that step six is
either turned into biodiesel or glycerol
so it's one step but it kind of merges
out and then the final step is the
biodiesel itself it's put into vehicles
to fuel vehicles so here we've actually
got seven stages okay so the Sun even
though the Sun of the picture it's not a
stage it's it's part of the
photosynthesis process
okay the flowers photosynthesize using
energy from the Sun is that clear so
really you're only counting the steps
okay the main steps the main arrows
alright
so my model answer for the general
overview is according to the diagram
seven stages are needed to produce
biofuel that's it that's your general
overview very simple you just mentioned
the number of stages then we move on to
the detail description description this
is the chunk of the writing task this is
where you actually need to describe
every stage
you need to use sequencing words
sequencing words that show the steps
first second third next okay to make it
very clear where the one step begins and
then ends also you need to use passive
sentences and I'm going to talk about
this in a moment what are passive
sentences and how to use them in this
task use the arrows to guide your
description so describing each stage of
the process here's our a model answer
I'll just let you read it
okay now I know there are some big words
and then probably there are some words
that you but you're not familiar with
that's okay
you don't really need to know the words
or know what they mean you just need to
pretty much copy them from the diagram
all right so moving on how many
sequencing words can you see sequencing
words are words that show a transition
from one step to the next
all right why have you got this one so
we've got seven sequencing words one for
each stage we know that we had seven
stages in the process so there are seven
sequencing words in the beginning in the
second stage after this following this
step then next and finally so that's
seven sequencing words one for each step
yes well done Ally good for you you've
got this one right okay so let's talk
about some sequencing words that you can
use for this time firstly secondly
thirdly fourthly these are fine next
then in the next stage the next step is
this is followed by plus passive voice
you can also use this phrase here in the
penultimate stage and ultimately it
means the one before last and then for
the last stage you can say the final
stage finally or the last step do so
these are some useful words that you can
use to show the transition from one word
one step in the process to the next so
I'm going to display the process here
for you and I want you to choose a
sequencing word for each stage so you
should have seven altogether starting
from the first to the last
okay I'll give you my answers you're all
very quiet for this one so firstly
secondly next after that then the
penultimate step is or finally now you
don't have to use these ones okay you
can say firstly then next following that
after that second last last okay it
doesn't really matter you can choose
whichever sequencing words you like just
as long as you use them for each step
okay we're going to move on to passive
sentences in this type of task you
really need to understand and use
passive sentences correctly so if I get
into it I want you to have a look at the
passage and tell me how many passive
sentences can you see
[Music]
alright so few different answers there
let's take a look so we have here is
created are harvested is extracted is
purified is added is used and is used so
altogether that seven passes sentences
so let's have a look at what passive
sentences are and why we use them we use
them when what is happening is more
important than who's doing it so in this
sense it's when the action is more
important than the actual so we don't
know who is doing the action in this
process we don't know who is doing these
steps we just know that the steps are
happening and that's what the focus is
on so here is the subject or the actor
is not important so we use the passive
voice by using the verb to be plus a
past the past participle of the verb for
example is created for singular nouns
are harvested if we're talking about
plural nouns is purified is added is
used okay so very easily
we just conjugate the verb to be for
either is or are depending on if it's
plural or singular and in the past
participle so for example here we have
farmers harvest seeds from the plants
now we don't know that there are farmers
when we looked at the at the diagram
there are no farmers in the diet
we don't know who is doing the action so
we remove the subject farmers in this
sentence is the subject and the plan are
the object to make this sentence pattern
we remove the subject and the object
becomes the subject
I'll show you so we remove farmers
harvest feeds from these plants plant
has to become sorry seeds has to become
the object so seeds are harvested from
these plants so the important thing here
is the seeds not the farming so can you
make these sentences into passive
farmers extract oil from the seeds let's
try that one first so we need to get rid
of the farmers what's the object what is
being extracted here oil so oil has to
go into the place of farmers and then we
have to make the verb extract into
passive good perfect well done everybody
oil is extracted from the seeds how
about you try two three and four
okay excellent guys well done let's take
a look so the answers are oil is
extracted from the seeds the liquid is
purified alcohol is added and glycerol
is used so you all got this correct well
done
passive voice is it easy and this is the
kind of the kind of grammar that you
want to be using in this particular
writing task so I want you each to pick
one stage just want to know it says -
there but let's just pick one stage and
describe it for me using passive voice
so does it doesn't matter which one you
choose
okay good yeah good sentences everybody
well done so here are my examples so
crude oil is refined and I think some of
one of you wrote that sentence and I
wrote also biodiesel is created so new
train your biodiesel is used for
vehicles yes good what is the mother
good sentence here
seeds are harvested yep good so the
trick for the part 3 is to use
sequencing word and passive voice and
then finally we move into section 4
which is the summary and again this is
just one sentence where you describe the
first and last stage only so for example
here's the formula for the summary I'm
sorry
you can be seen that the process of X
begins with Y and finishes with Z you
can apply this summary formula to any
diagram or any process that you live in
and you just have to fill in X Y and D
with information founded from the
diagram
so here I've said
in summary it can be seen that the
biodiesel manufacturing process begins
with photosynthesis and finishes with
energy generation and co2 emission so
this is what the end product looks like
my introduction is a paraphrase of the
question my general overview is just a
description of how many stages there are
in the process my detailed comparison
starts off with the first stage goes
through every step until the last stage
linking each step with linking words and
using passive voice and then my summary
just basically mentions again the first
step and elastic so to recap rewrite the
question describe how many stages then
go into detail sequencing every step
using passive voice and then summarize
using first and last step okay guys I
hope that it's clear and you're leaving
with a better idea now of how to answer
the writing task process and yet
practice is all I can say is practice
practice practice and I'll see you next
time okay take care bye
[Music]